
model evaluation:


Regression
classification

if we are wanted to find price of  house, where we have size of house, location, city, house price
here house price is dependent varaible

we have 2 variables in any data set
a. dependant variable
b. independent variable

only varaible will be dependent varaible, and that wil be output varaible/dependent varaible/target variable(y), others are input variables

in ml, all input varaibles are independent varaibles

for whichever we are choosing model to predict , that wil be dependent variable, other data will be independent  variables

2 types of model approach

Accuracy shud be considered for regression, not for Classification
Regression -  if output is continous data - eg to predict price of car
            85 per accuracy is considered as good model
            
Classification - if output is binary/ is any category - eg- 1. whether person will get bank loan/not
                                                            2. wine classification

based on type of problem statement, we choose approach


medical applications - most of them are through image detection

lung density, lung tissues
ecg
sepsis shock
============

1. Significance:
-----------------------

to predict the data, in every data set we have one significant data

eg - in predicting price of house, size of house is the significant data


2. Feature Engineering:
-------------------------

to find potential customer - 

in online we do lot of activities- there will be 300 columns of data
out of this there will be many unsignificant columns of data, which might increase processing time for model

so after dropping insignificant columns but stsill maintainign its performance is feature engineering


Clasification model Evalaution:
------------------------

eg - a covid patient , where model predicts no covid and vice-versa

confusion matrix-
------------
Actual if equal to prediction its true, else false


Prediction(Lab report) 0(negative report)  1(Positive report)

1.for whatever data we are building model its value can be takne as 1(out of covid and non-covid, covid can be takn as 1, non-covid as 0)
2. Data as Actual, Predicted
3. X-axis as precited, y-axis as Actual
4,left diagonal to find out type-1(False postive), and type-2 error(False Negative)

ideally in health care, type-2 is not acceptable(actuall postive, but predicted negative - FN(false negative), in that case type-2 will be reduced, but type-1 will be automatically increased


Validation of classification model:
a. Accuracy
b. Confusion Matrix
c. Classification Report - 
        1. Recall 2.Precision 3.F1 score
        
            Recall = TP/ TP+FN - if fN is high, recall wil be low
            
            precision =TP/TP+FP - if FP is high, precision will be low
            
        in some cases type-1 will be important in some type-2 
    F1 is harmonic mean of recall and precision
d. ROC, AUC
